# S3 - Simple Storage Service

- [S3 - Simple Storage Service](#s3---simple-storage-service)
  - [Differences between Azure and AWS:](#differences-between-azure-and-aws)
  - [Advantages of S3:](#advantages-of-s3)
    - [Install aws cli and set up:](#install-aws-cli-and-set-up)
  - [To make a bucket:](#to-make-a-bucket)
  - [Upload file to bucket:](#upload-file-to-bucket)
  - [Download from bucket to current directory:](#download-from-bucket-to-current-directory)
  - [:warning: Delete a single file from our bucket: :warning:](#warning-delete-a-single-file-from-our-bucket-warning)
  - [:warning: Delete all files from a bucket: :warning:](#warning-delete-all-files-from-a-bucket-warning)
  - [:warning: Delete a bucket: :warning:](#warning-delete-a-bucket-warning)
  - [Python Boto3 for CRUD methods](#python-boto3-for-crud-methods)

## Differences between Azure and AWS:
- Azure have to store our blobs inside of containers.
- S3 have to store our blobs inside of buckets.

## Advantages of S3:
- Limitless in how much data can be held.
- Security: private by default.
- Accessibility: URL / endpoint provided to access them anywhere.
- Redundancy: built-in from the start.

### Install aws cli and set up:
- `sudo pip install awscli`
- `aws --version`
- `alias python=python3`
- `aws configure`:
    - Key:
    - Secret Key:
    - region: eu-west-1
    - format: json
    
## To make a bucket:
- `aws s3 mb s3://<name of bucket>`
- endpoint starts with s3.
- `aws s3 ls s3://tech257-spencer-first-bucket`
    - gave us no output as empty.

## Upload file to bucket:
- `echo This is the first line in a test file > test.txt`
- `aws s3 cp test.txt s3://tech257-spencer-first-bucket`
- `aws s3 ls s3://tech257-spencer-first-bucket` 2024-04-15 10:05:20         38 test.txt

## Download from bucket to current directory:
- `aws s3 sync s3://tech257-spencer-first-bucket .`
    - Output: download: s3://tech257-spencer-first-bucket/test.txt to ./test.txt
    - `ls`
    - Output: test.txt

## :warning: Delete a single file from our bucket: :warning:
- `aws s3 rm s3://tech257-spencer-first-bucket/test.txt`
    - You don’t get asked are you sure… be very careful.

## :warning: Delete all files from a bucket: :warning:
 - `aws s3 rm s3://tech257-spencer-first-bucket --recursive`

## :warning: Delete a bucket: :warning:
- `aws s3 rb s3://tech257-spencer-first-bucket`
    - Doesn’t work if the bucket isn’t empty.
- `aws s3 rb s3://tech257-spencer-first-bucket --force`
    - Super Dangerous!!!
    - In md :warning: or :boom: will red flag or explosion next to words so know is dangerous.

## Python Boto3 for CRUD methods
- We can use python to run the crud methods on S3, 
- We need to run the following steps to set up our environment:
  1. `python3 -m venv my_venv`
  2. `source my_venv/bin/activate`
  3. `pip install boto3`
- We're now ready to create our scripts, checkout the scripts in this folder: [Python Scripts for S3 CRUD methods](s3-python-scripts)